Okay so what is JPA, JPA stands for
Java persistence API now this is the
official API for working with
relational data and Java. JPA, is only a
specification is not a concrete
implementation meaning that it is an API
specification and there's other vendors
to choose from. There's different
implementations to choose
from for JPA, so what does JP a do? It is
a bridge from Java's object world to
how data is stored in relational
databases. There's a different paradigm
there, so it's known as an ORM tool, object
relational mapping and what JPA offers
us Java developers, is database
independence. One API will support many
different relational databases so if you
stick to the API you should be able to
hit just about any relational database.
Now JPA 2.0 came out under JSR
317 and this was approved in
December 2009. It added support for
embedded objects and ordered list also
criteria query which is a really cool
feature and SQL hints is very
important for larger data sets and
validation and JPA 2.1 came out under
JSR 338 and this was approved in
December 2013 now this had a very
important feature for custom type
converters and also criteria for update
and delete of bulk data in the database
so this is a pretty important feature to
do these bulk operations. Also gave us a
standard way to do schema generation and
run queries against stored procedures now
for the JPA 2.1 implementations
hibernate has 72 percent of the market
share while eclipse link has 13 percent
which is actually the reference
implementation for the API and then open
JPA has just 2% of the market share
now some of the databases support by
hibernate. Obviously would be a little
Oracle 11g, the granddaddy of all
databases, db2, sequel server, Sybase, mySQL, Postgres and then there's a lot
of smaller ones out there like Apache
Derby, Informix,
even Microsoft Access, I hate Access. But we will be using h2 in here in this course
as well now hibernate 5 came out in
September 2015
Commercial support for hibernate is
available through
Red Hat which makes it very popular with
enterprises. Spring Framework adopted it
in version 4.2 and then spring boot came
up in version 1.4 so you can see that
there's a little bit of a lag from
Spring Framework adopting it to spring
Boot adapting it
so in this course we will be using
hibernate version 5 and higher and we'll
also be using Spring Framework 5 and
spring boot 2 so these are all
using hibernate 5 and we will be using
that which is a reference. They're not
the reference implementation, it is a
implementation of JPA 2.1. Now I want to
point out that hibernate does have its
own extension there's hibernate specific
things that we can get into and as much
as possible I am going to avoid those
because I want us to the JPA specification
which is pretty feature-rich so we'll be
sticking to just trying to stick to
plain old vanilla and JPA so if in the
future we ever wanted to switch our JPA
implementation we should be able to to
do so. So just like in this course what
you're going to see us do is develop
against relational database we'll start
off with h2 but somewhere down the path
we will go against MySQL and you'll
see how seamless that will be, how easy
it is because we are using hibernate
which gives us the data base and
independence. Alright I jumped over to
IntelliJ and I've created two pojos so
just plain old Java objects and the
first class is author and author
has a first name and last name and he
also has a set of books. So let's take a
quick look at book, so a book has a title
and Isbin and a publisher, I'm not sure
what isbin stands for that's an
industry standard for identifying books
and book also has a set of authors
because obviously
a book can have more than one author and
likewise an author can have more than
one book. So pretty, pretty simple
relationship here and right now this is
pure object-oriented programming is just
two Pojos that are related to each other
and because they share a common set so
author has a set of books and book has a
set of authors so nothing to earth
shattering here and what we're going to
do is convert these into JPA
entities now the first thing that we
need to do is annotate the classes as an
entity. We do that with the entity and we
can see that two annotations are coming
up there and intellisense
and we want the Java X persistence and
that is the official JPA API that we are
using so we definitely want to be
using that, not the hibernate specific
ones and I'm going to do the same thing
for book you can see IntelliJ is trying
to bring up the hibernate one which we
do not want and it looks like it's been
deprecated anyways so now we've
marked both of those as entities and so
these are going to show up as JPA
entities but we're not quite done yet. One thing right now the problem is we
don't have a unique way to identify
these in terms of persistence so first
name last name you could have more than
one author with the first name last name
so we need to add in some type of unique
identifier so what I'm going to do is
add in a new property, a long property
and now no need to use long I'm
just going to call it ID and I'll go
down here and add in a good net setter
for it and I'm just doing command new on
the OS X at least and so now I have a
getter and setter for that property and
this is what's known as leakage from the
ORM from the relational database up into
the object layer because truly in a
OO world we don't care about an ID
value but here when we persist it we
need to have some type of unique
identifier there so this a little bit
of leakage between relational
and the object-oriented paradigm now
what we need to do is tell JPA that this
is an ID, again we are using the Java X
persistence ID and we are also going to
tell it how to generate it so we're
going to say it's a generative value and
in this case we are going to do strategy
and generation Auto and this would be
both, h2 supports this and MySQL
supports it. I did try this in
Oracle 12 it wasn't quite working but
this is some time ago they might got the
kinks worked out of it so I don't think
the hibernate implementation was quite
ready when I tried it. So I'm going to
come over here and I am doing a cut and
paste just to expedite things
remember cut and paste is evil and you
should not try that at home
and now I need to add in the ID as well,
the getters and setters for it so now I
have that all set up and now that the
last thing that we need to do is we've
told it that we have a set and what
we want to do is tell JPA that we are
going to have a many-to-many
relationship here so we're going to have
many to many authors to books and also many to many for books to authors so
this is going to define that
relationship allowing that to get
created in the database. Now hibernate is
going to make some guesses for us and
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
start up spring boot right now.
So I've gone into IntelliJ I'm running
spring booth same thing as if I gone to
maven and done spring boot run so we can
see that it did come up pretty pretty
quick and you can see some hibernate
chatter here saying that it has done an
import and it's actually gone in and
created on the fly for us and there's an
h2 database counsel available and we are
getting this error page because it used
to be enabled by default but
is not so what we need to do is come
over here, I left that in so you can see
it and I'm gonna use IntelliJ h23 intellisense and
we can see that the spring dot h2
council navel is false. I'm going to
change that to true and we'll restart
things so we can get that database
Council because what I want to do is
show you the in-memory database so in
the background spring has  started up an h2
database for us. Let's come back over
here and test that, now the one
thing when you're doing this is
keep an eye on your JDBC URL so you
definitely want JDBC h2 mem test DB if
you have something else in there and I
think it's cached for me I've had others
get in trouble with this I believe
this is cached for some reason on my
browser I can go in and connect but
watch that URL and now we can see
what hibernate is created inside of h2
for us so we have author, author books,
books and book authors so this is going
to set up the relationships and we
probably want to tweak this because I'm
not too happy with how this turned
out. This is not a good database schema for
us but this is just using the default
mappings and we are going to definitely
tweak that so that we have a better
relationship and specify the join tables
but this is hibernate's first guy found a
very minimal JPA mapping for us so I'm
going to switch over now and correct
that little problem that we have so what
we want to do is get rid of author books
and book authors these are auto
generated by hibernate and we don't want
that behavior so I'm going to toggle
over here to IntelliJ and the first
thing I need to do is check author and
say that he's mapped by and saying he's
mapped by authors so this is going to be
the target side, so we're creating a
relationship to books for him and the
next thing we need to do, this is a little
bit more complex
because we only want one joint table not
two because we didn't specify information
so hibernate's trying to fulfill both
ways of the direction and we want to
actually have a single table to define
that relationship so what we need to do
is add in what's called a joined table and
in this case we're going to say a name
so we're doing an author book so we're gonna
toggle over to chrome real quick and you
can see that it created author books and
book authors which is not what we want
so we're going to override that and now we
also need to tell it about joint columns
I'm going to say that joint column.
and what this is going to do if we
take a quick look over here the way the
default mapping and hibernate work is
it's creating authors ID and books ID so
we want a singular ID value there so
that's what's going to change that
behavior and then finally we need to
specify inverse join columns
so now I've got the column specified so
it were saying book ID and author ID
to get those columns singular and let's
take a quick peek back over here once
more so we can see I have the two joint
column so I'm specifying with these
annotations I want a single table so
let's go ahead and restart this now and
what's going to happen is hibernate is
going to restart and generate the schema
DDL for us in the background based on
our JPA mappings. They'll come up pretty quick
see that it's back up and we are going
to do a refresh here see our database
has changed and now we can see that we
have author book and author book and we
have a single book ID and a singular
author ID so now we have a single
relational table to define that
many-to-many relationship for us.
Alright that is a great introduction to
JPA in case you didn't know anything
about JPA before I hope this gave you a
good solid over here now clearly we only
covered the very basics of JPA I'm
trying to give you a very standard
object relational model to work with and
we're going to work with this going
forward and get this data,
well actually put data in the database
ultimately, at the end of the section of
the course we're going to get that
displaying on a web page but this is
like the basics further down the course
we are going to get a lot more into JPA
and show you some more advanced features
of using JPA mappings. But right now
we're just getting going so I didn't
want to get too far down that rabbit
hole we got a lot more to cover in this
section of the course as far as getting
data into the database and through a
spring MVC controller and onto a web
page for us.